[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti in charlie state
our headlines today high street
pharmacies join the roll out of the
coronavirus vaccine
as the uk records its highest daily
death toll
new rules requiring travelers arriving
in england to have a negative
coronavirus test
have been delayed donald trump becomes
the first
president in u.s history to be impeached
twice he must go he is a clear and
present danger
to the nation that we all love
good morning it's just getting better
and better for england in sri lanka
stuart broad takes three wickets now on
the opening day in gaul
with the hosts five down in what is
normally such a tough venue for touring
teams
good morning we've got an amber warning
for heavy snowfall this morning for
parts of northern england and scotland
too elsewhere some heavy rain around
through the course of today
i'll have more details coming up shortly
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 14th of
january our top story is that a further
1564 people have died from coronavirus
in the uk that's the biggest
figure reported in a single day ross
johnson
has said hospital intensive care units
face being
overwhelmed let's get more from our
chief political correspondent adam
fleming who joins us from westminster
adam
you'll know we were talking to susan
hopkins from public health england
warning that deaths are going to rise
the number of deaths per day
as we see more admissions into hospital
and we also had that stark warning
from the prime minister yesterday yeah
looking at the daily coronavirus figures
it's quite strange at the moment
actually because you look at the number
of cases
and for two days now it looks like
they've been going down slightly
which gives you cause for optimism but
then you look at the next column and the
number of deaths
and that's still going up and the number
of hospitalizations
is still going up and that is because
there is a lag between the number of
cases
and the number of deaths as susan
hopkins from public health england was
telling us a little while ago
what we see is that one or two weeks
after the
infections arise in the community we see
hospital admissions rise and again one
to two weeks later we see deaths rise
um it's it it's pretty clear the
consequences of this
infection um uh so we would expect to
see
rises and deaths in the coming couple of
weeks
as the peak in in cases really happened
at the end of december and beginning of
january so we have some time to go
so in other words the lockdown does
appear to be working there's tentative
signs of that
but that does not mean the pressure is
off the nhs
or that the bad sad news won't keep
coming
and patrick valance the chief scientific
advisor who advises ministers
on on all the science and all the data
says there is the potential
that that tougher measures may be needed
in the next few weeks but just the
potential
um adam also have been discussing with
the safeguarding minister
actually about how the government is
taking a look at the new brazilian
variant and um travel restrictions that
are
coming in yes so there's going to be a
meeting of senior ministers
at this morning where they'll look at
what to do with this brazilian variant
and what it means for travel
it's not clear yet whether there'll be a
ban on flights from brazil
or whether there'll be a ban on flights
from all of south america
we'll have to wait for a ministerial
decision on that and there's another
coronavirus travel story today we were
all expecting the new rules to come into
force
in england where you need to have a
negative test within 72 hours
before you arrive back in the uk if
you're traveling
from abroad that is going to go ahead as
planned tomorrow
in scotland if you go on the eurostar
website for the train services between
the uk and the continent they think
that's coming in across the uk
tomorrow as well but the department of
transport say there's going to be a
grace period
and it will not apply in england until
four o'clock in the morning
on monday they say that's not a delay
it's to give passengers time to get used
to the new system
and also just the fact that the
availability of coronavirus testing
abroad is not quite as good as it is
here in the uk
but remember the rules are we're meant
to all be staying at home
so that's maybe more of a theoretical
thing rather than a thing that will
apply to loads and loads and loads of
travelers
okay adam always good to talk to you
thanks very much adam fleming there
people who've had covet 19 are protected
from getting it again for at least
five months that's according to new
research by public health
england the study says past infection
gives people
83 percent immunity compared with those
who've not had coronavirus however those
with immunity may still be able to carry
the virus and transmit it
to others donald trump has become the
first u.s
president to be impeached twice he's
been charged with
incitement of insurrection over last
week's assault on congress by his
supporters
our u.s correspondent barbara plett
usher has the story
the resolution is adopted without
objection the motion to reconsider
is laid upon the table so ended a week
like no other in washington
with the astonishing collapse of donald
trump's final days in office
lawmakers returned to a capital
transformed thousands of national guard
troops deployed to protect them from the
loyal supporters of the departing
president
who had stormed congress the people's
house looked like a war zone
the debate to impeach the president for
inciting the violence was sharp and
emotional
the president must be impeached and i
believe the president must be convicted
by the senate
a constitutional remedy that will ensure
that the republic will be safe from this
man
who was so resolutely determined to tear
down the things that we hold dear
and that hold us together it's not just
about impeachment anymore it's about
canceling as i've said canceling the
president and anyone that disagrees with
them but most republicans didn't defend
mr trump instead they questioned the
process
and warned it would deepen divisions and
voted for impeachment a stark difference
from the first time round one year ago
next this goes to the senate for trial
but only after the inauguration
of joe biden when mr trump will have
left office
but i cannot emphasize that there must
be no violence
in a video message he still didn't
concede the election
but with the threat of more attacks to
come he called for protesters to remain
peaceful
if you do any of these things you are
not supporting our movement
you are attacking it and you are
attacking our country
it's been one week since the riot and
there's one more week to go before joe
biden is inaugurated
in the middle of this the house says it
has acted to protect democracy
by impeaching mr trump but a peaceful
transfer of power
still feels very fragile barbara
kledasher bbc news
washington from today victims of
domestic abuse will be able to use
a code word to get help at thousands of
pharmacies across the uk
now anyone who asks a member of staff
for annie
will be taken to a safe space to contact
support services
one in five offenses recorded by police
during the first national lockdown in
england and wales
involved domestic abuse this according
to figures from the office for national
statistics
trained services being cut by nearly 30
percent in england because of the third
lockdown the industry body the rail
delivery group says
it will provide better value for money
for taxpayers with subsidising services
which are carrying fewer passengers
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full
dot story with uk forward slash news
follow the story for all the latest with
bbc news